How does Merse are pretty difficult right.
I have the answer for you here and I'm not going to kowtow along because well this is one of those pieces
of code that me just writing in and typing it in a 30 minute video isn't really going to help your understanding.
I recommend you go through this code line by line to fully understand.
But if we take a look here all we're doing in the first pass in the merge sort function is we're going
to get the length of the array find the middle of the array and then we're going to slice the array
into the left hand side and the right hand side so that if I Konsole log here and I click run we see
that the first time around we're just splitting the item right down the middle where we have ninety
nine all the way up to 1 in the left hand side and 5 to zero.
And the right hand side in the next pass because remember we're doing recursion and this is being called
again when we get to here.
We're now dividing up ninety nine and 44 and six to one into its own pass and then ninety nine and 44
into individual items six and one into left and right until we have everything into one item.
And then we start splitting off this and side as well.
Now what about the merge function.
The merge function is going to be a little bit hard to read but if we take a look here all we're saying
is we have a results array that we're going to fill everything with and we're going to have a left index
and a right index.
And we're going to compare.
Here is the left index less than the length of the left to right and the right index less than there
right array length which is make sure that we have items in our array.
If that's the case then let's compare our left item to the right item.
And push into a new array into our results re the item that is less.
In this case it will be the left hand item and then we increment.
Otherwise if the left item is higher than the right item we do the opposite and the right at him goes
into our result.
Remember this merge function is doing what we saw in the animation where splitting the function down
in the first part of the function and then in the merge we're going to take the left and right compare
it and place it into the results array.
And then go to the next and keep doing this over and over and creating our results array.
If I Konsole lot here left and right and I click run we see exactly what we're doing.
We have ninety nine and 44 and then two and one.
So on the left hand side and right hand side ninety nine and 44 get compared becomes 44 and ninety nine
and then we compare two and one which becomes 1 and 2 then 6 and 1 and 2 which becomes 1 2 6 and we
keep going keep going keep going until the very last step where we have two lists here and we compare
them 0 and 1 we place 0 and the results are a and then we place 1 2 and just keeps going and keeps going
exactly like our animation.
Now I encourage you to play around with this and perhaps go step by step.
It is a really hard algorithm to get the bad news is that the next algorithm is even more complicated.
But luckily for you as I said you don't have to ever do this in an interview.
You just need to know that merge sort is a great algorithm to use because we get all of an log and bingo.
Let's take a look at another sorting algorithm.